Well CGR viewers, this is Gabe from Undertow,
and today’s review marks my final day at
Classic Game Room before I head off to college.
I decided to do a game that, like my upcoming
experience, is completely new to me.
The Gauntlet series has become a classic hack
and slasher with tons of pop-culture references
in both movies and television shows, and I
thought that it would be great to give this
one a try before I head out.
I was pleasantly surprised to find that this
game is a difficult but rewarding experience
that has a great old-school feel to it.
This is Gauntlet: Dark Legacy for the GameCube.
Gauntlet: Dark Legacy was originally an arcade
game before getting ported to different home
consoles, and it feels like it.
You start off by choosing any color of a variety
of character classes like archer and a dwarf
who looks like Mr. T in junior high.
You’re then sent into a level as you progress
through waves of enemies and collect items
like keys to help you make it to the end.
Unlike more modern western RPG’s, Dark Legacy
is a game that really feels like it wants
you to play it in short spurts, emphasized
by its sort of “drop in” gameplay style,
instead of trying to play it for hours and
hours at a time.
Throughout each level, there are also little
scrolls of paper that give you vague hints
of what’s to come, and this adds a fun tension
to the experience.
Along with a sort of stripped down RPG style
that Dark Legacy uses, it also features a
fairly simple control scheme.
The A button is for a weaker attack and the
Y button uses a stronger attack, while X is
for magic and B is for a block that’s really
hard to use.
Different abilities can be earned by moving
through levels, and choosing where and when
to use each one is easily the best part of
the combat.
The game can get a tad button-mashy at times,
but boss fights, especially when you’re
using the sorceress like I was, usually require
you to do some kiting so you don’t get absolutely
destroyed.
In addition, pieces of food are scattered
throughout the level to raise your health
in tough situations.
The game can go from being fairly easy to
extremely tough in a matter of seconds, and
busting up barrels and opening chests to find
a piece of fruit or a steak also adds to the
excitement.
However, poison food items and explosives
are also available and these can be a pretty
big middle finger to you if you’re desperate
for some health.
But hey, that’s kind of what old school
games are about.
For a GameCube game, Gauntlet: Dark Legacy
doesn’t exactly amaze with its visuals.
The camera angle it uses doesn’t really
allow for too much detail to be shown, but
the graphics still do the job.
Audio is a little, um, suggestive, especially
with a specific character, and the music is
excellent.
It also features some classic lines that fans
of the series, and even some who aren’t,
will recognize.
Gauntlet: Dark Legacy shows that you don’t
need to make a hack and slash game super-complex
to make it entertaining.
I expected to enjoy the game, but I didn’t
expect for it to be just as addictive as it
was.
It’s always nice to find an older gaming
gem that you missed from the last generation.
Well, that’s it for me, guys.
This is Gabe from Classic Game Room.
Take care.